hey what's up guys explanation pro is
here today i'll explain a war drama film
title unbroken spoiler ahead watch out
and take care the movie unbroken is set
during the events of world war ii
the story centers around the struggle
for survival of an olympic athlete
turned soldier named lewis louis
zamporini in the hands of the japanese
army
the movie opens with a bombing mission
on a japanese-occupied island
louis is the bombardier or the one that
handles the bombing operations of the
b-24 plane
as they are approaching the island they
are met with resistance from the
japanese
but despite of this louis is able to
target their bases and drop the bombs
however as a result of the earlier
battle the b-24 plane is damaged
luckily the pilot phil is skilled enough
to land the plane despite being too fast
to land on the runway suffering only an
exploded tire in the process
in a flashback we can see that the young
louis is a misbehaving boy from torrance
california
he steals drinks and smokes other kids
pick on him because of his italian
heritage calling him names alluding to
his nationality
after defending himself from the other
kids the young louis gets caught by a
policeman who promptly delivers louie to
his house
there he gets scolded and punished for
what he had done
while running away from someone his
brother pete sees how fast louis could
actually run
because of this pete urges louis to be a
runner at first louis is hesitant but
after being reassured by his brother
that he believes in him louis accepts
and trains to become a runner
growing up louis becomes the fastest
high school runner in america during
that time earning him the nickname the
torrance tornado
because of this he becomes one of the
representative athletes for the summer
olympics in berlin
while he only ends up in eighth place
during that event louis still manages to
set a record in the race's final lap
back at home louie's family listening
through the radio cheers for this
achievement
back to the present louis continues his
training by running alongside a jeep
his training gets stopped when they get
assigned to another mission but this
time it involves rescuing
however the plane they are using for
that mission is made up of spare parts
and as therefore unstable
this instability of the plane becomes
apparent when the engines of the plane
fail mid-flight
as a result the plane crashes down to
the sea and only louis phil and another
soldier named max survive the crash
while aboard two inflatable boats the
other soldier mack pessimistically
believes that they are going to die but
louis reassures him that they will be
rescued eventually by the americans
they manage it first but when resources
start to dwindle the three struggles to
survive in the seemingly endless ocean
when their food got depleted they have
to rely on catching their food which
includes a seagull a fish and eventually
a shark and after surviving a storm
their water gets refilled by the rain
after a long time floating in the ocean
the three eventually cut the attention
of a plane but the plane is actually
from the japanese army
the plane fires at them but they survive
the ordeal however their inflatable
boats are damaged by the encounter after
a few more days mack dies afterward they
are finally rescued by a ship but it is
from the japanese army they become
prisoners of war imprisoned on an island
louis and phil get interrogated by the
japanese about the americans newer plane
models and bomb sites louis answers that
they have been using old models of
planes and radios
after extracting information from them
the japanese eventually dragged them to
the middle of the base and ordered the
two to strip down
seeing a japanese sword louis thinks
they are about to be executed instead
they get washed by cold water
they are shipped instead to another camp
in japan upon arriving in japan louie
and phil get separated from each other
louis then ends up at a prison camp in
omori
at the camp the officers are separated
from the soldiers the commanding officer
of the camp corporal matsuhiro watanabe
beats up louis with a stick resulting in
a bleeding nose
wadanabe then orders the newly arrived
prisoners of war to quarantine until the
night
that night louis meets and talks to
commander fitzgerald as well as other
soldiers there
their nickname for wat nabi is the bird
because watanabe apparently listens to
them and will kill them if he hears
about other unflattering nicknames
the next day the prisoners are made to
bow to the japanese flag and afterward
promptly dismissed
in the winter time during a routine
exercise watanabe tells the prisoners
that there are talented men among them
one of which is the olympic athlete
louis
wadanabe then initiates a race between
louis and a japanese soldier due to
exhaustion and starvation louis loses
the race and gets hit by watanabe as a
result later that night louis learns
from fitzgerald that the allies are
gaining ground in the war having just
invaded the marshall islands
louis smiles at the news the next day
watanabe discovers a shredded piece of a
map that indicates saipan
watanabe sadistically beats the man who
owns them with a stick this event
infuriates louis who tells fitzgerald
that he will kill watanabe but
fitzgerald urges him to think about
staying alive until the end of the war
because that is how they will win
against the japanese
after a short while louis gets attacked
by watanabe for no reason while the
other prisoners sleep in their bunker
one day louis gets told that he is
officially pronounced dead in america
after watanabe mockingly allows louis to
announce to his family that he is alive
he is immediately taken to a radio
station
there louis tells his family that he is
alive and well as a prisoner of war in
tokyo
he then wishes them a merry christmas
and a happy new year
afterward while eating in a fine dining
restaurant he gets approached again by
the men that brought him to talk to the
radio
the men want him again to speak to the
radio but this time what he will say is
scripted
louis refuses their offer because what
it says about his country is false
the men insist by telling him that other
former prisoners of war also did it
before and now they live comfortably
louis refuses again and he is brought
back to the camp as a result
back at the camp watanabe smiles at the
returning louie telling him that they
are both strong and could have been
friends if only they were not enemies
wadanabe then tells the other prisoners
to teach louis about respect by punching
him one by one
fitzgerald the first in the line
initially refuses the order but upon
seeing that one of the prisoners will
get beat up instead louis urges
fitzgerald when louis sees a soldier
hesitating to punch him he shouts at him
to hit him
this punching spree lasted the whole day
afterward during a theater production of
cinderella watanabe approaches louis
from the audience
sitting beside him watanabe informs
louis of good news he had just been
promoted
the bad news according to wadanabe is
that he is leaving the camp
he then wants louis to congratulate him
but louis answers nothing but silence
that night they celebrate watanabe's
exit from the camp however that night
the allies also conduct an air raid in
the nearby city and areas
while the prisoners are extinguishing
the flames caused by the air raid one of
them tells the others to not get excited
about the ally's arrival
he tells them that he had overheard the
japanese having a kill all order against
the prisoners if the allies win the war
this news tears the men the following
day the prisoners are immediately
transported to another prison camp
while marching through the city they see
the devastation caused by the air rape
last night
after being transported in a train the
prisoners arrive at a new camp where
they witness men carrying large baskets
of coal in their backs
while standing in a row louis sees a
familiar figure and collapses in his
nabi
now a sergeant informs them as the
commanding officer that they are now in
nawazu prison camp telling them that
their job there is to work on the coal
barges
he also tells them that if they stop
working the prisoners will be executed
that night in their new barracks the
prisoners are visibly demoralized by
watanabe's return in their lives
louis immediately notices the harsh
condition of this new prison camp at one
point while climbing the stairs and
carrying a basket full of coals a
prisoner behind him collapses in
exhaustion and falls from the stairs
while doing their work in a boat
watanabe halts the prisoner's operation
to announce disheartening news president
roosevelt has just died
one of the prisoners falls to his knees
and cries out of hopelessness
after a few days while transferring
coals from one place to another louis
gets pushed from a high place and breaks
his leg
louis rides in pain while his fellow
prisoners cannot help but only watch it
as agony
that night louis gets asked by his
fellow prisoner if he is all right but
louis does not answer his question the
next day out of exhaustion from doing
his work louis stops getting to rest
but the officer sees him and immediately
takes him in front of giant metal bars
as punishment watanabe orders him to
pick one up and lift it above his head
which louis does
watanabe then cruelly tells the guards
to shoot louis if he drops the metal bar
everyone in the camp witnessed louie's
display of strength and courage under
the scorching sun watanabe the guards
and his fellow prisoners
under their breath the prisoners cheer
for louis perhaps thinking that louis
will immediately drop it due to
exhaustion watanabe has an expression of
uneasiness on his face while waiting for
the metal bar to drop
louie his eyes staring intently at
wadanabe lifts the bar higher while
shouting in defiance toward watnabe
the prisoners get encouraged as they see
this inhuman feat wadanabe slowly
becomes furious telling louis to stop
looking at him but louis continues
staring at him
embarrassed by what he thought would be
an easy execution watanabe attacks louis
after beating him up watanabe falls to
his knees in exhaustion
seeing that everyone had watched what
had transpired watanabe shouts at them
to continue their work
on the other hand louie is left on the
spot where he had been beaten up laying
there unconscious until the night
after that an officer announces to the
prisoners that the war is finally over
to celebrate the end of the war the
officer invites them to take a bath in
the nearby river
the prisoners immediately think their
end has arrived because they thought
their executions would be conducted in
the river
however after getting there an american
bomber plane passes them confirming that
the war is truly over
the prisoners celebrate in the river
while the japanese guards that overlook
them remove the bayonets from their guns
supplies immediately arrive in the camp
which the liberated prisoners promptly
and happily take canned goods magazines
chocolates and cigarettes among others
but while the prisoners are celebrating
their freedom louis climbs to the tower
where watanabe's office resides
he sees that watanabe is already gone
his room already cleaned up leaving
behind only his cane and a picture of
watanabe and his father
upon arriving home louis immediately
kisses the ground the crowd happily
claps at him emerging from the crowd he
finally sees his family after so many
years
at the end of the movie the story
continues in pictures and movies
louis gets married after the war and had
two children he also converts to
christianity
phil also survives the war and gets
married himself remaining friends with
louis
on the other hand watanabe went into
hiding after many years but was
eventually pardoned by the u.s
government
louis decides to forgive watanabe and
other officers even after what happened
due to his faith but watanabe is the
only one who refused to see him the
movie ends with a video of louis now an
80 years old man running with torch in
hand at tokyo fulfilling his olympian
dream
thank you so much for watching if you
enjoyed this video please hit the like
button and also subscribe my channel for
more videos like this
see you in the next video